---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Tutorial Intro

Let's discover **Igora Protocol** and **learn how to use it in less than 5 minutes**.

Igora stands for **I-ntelligent A-gora**. With [Agora](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agora) meaning "market" in Modern Greek, a central public space in ancient Greek city-states.

The goal of Igora is to provide everyone, everywhere with llms (large language model) that can communicate with each other.


***IGORA PROTOCOL*** uses 4 major basic concepts : ***clients*** ask ***workers*** to do ***tasks*** or jobs. The ***market*** is the place where ***workers*** and ***clients*** communicate.



## Understanding Igora concepts

### A Worker runs a LLM
- A [Large Language Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model) ( LLM ) is a model that can "understand" and generate natural language.
 You have certainely heard about Chat-GPT by OpenAI. This a is big example of LLM. But other solutions exists, that allow us to use LLMS has opensource models and to develop
 applications based on this technology.
- A worker is a machine (computer, server...) that serve the LLM. You can ask the worker to generate a response to a prompt.
- A [prompt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prompt_engineering) is a text that the LLM is asked to respond to.
- A response is the text generated by the LLM.
- A systemPrompt is a prompt that guide the worker to tell him how to generate a response, how to use the LLM.

### A worker offer his services on a market
- Igora protocol is based on [Yjs](https://docs.yjs.dev/) that allow us to create a distributed database of Workers where clients can ask a worker to accomplish a task.

### A client create a job
- A client create a job and ask for its completion on the market.
- The market will give the job to a worker.
- The worker will give a response to the client.


## Getting Started

There are two ways to get started:
- You can [create a Igora stack in local market](/docs/installation) (a worker and a client on your own computer). Avantages : your data stay on your computer, Disadvantages : you can not use other llms or workers.
- You can [use decentralized Igora market](/docs/decentralized). Allowing you to use Igora protocol on a decentralized network.
 With this way, market, worker(s) and client(s) are distributed on the network. You specify which machine is a worker and which machine is a client. Advantages: Use a large bunch of llm , earn money or tokens with your workers
