---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Tutoriel, introduction

Découvrons ensemble le  **Protocole Igora** et **apprenez à vous en servir en moins de 5 minutes**.

Le nom **Igora** vient de  **I-ntelligent A-gora**. [Agora](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agora) en grec moderne signifiant "marché", une place centrale public dans les anciennes cité-état grecques.

Le but d'Igora est de proposer à chacun, partout, un service de llms (large modèle de langage) qui peuvent communiquer les uns avec les autres.


Le ***PROTOCOLE IGORA*** utilise 4 concepts principaux de base : les ***clients*** demandent  aux ***workers*** (ou travailleurs) d'exécuter des tâches (***tasks***) ou jobs. Le ***market*** (marché/agora) est l'endroit où les ***workers*** et les ***clients*** peuvent communiquer et échanger des informations sur les tâches à effectuer.

## Comprendre les concepts d'Igora

### Un worker execute et propose un service LLM
- Un [Large Modèle de Langage](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_mod%C3%A8le_de_langage) ( LLM ) est un modèle de langage qui peut "comprendre" et générer du texte en langage naturel.
 You have certainely heard about Chat-GPT by OpenAI. This a is big example of LLM. But other solutions exists, that allow us to use LLMS has opensource models and to develop
 applications based on this technology.
- A worker is a machine (computer, server...) that serve the LLM. You can ask the worker to generate a response to a prompt.
- A [prompt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prompt_engineering) is a text that the LLM is asked to respond to.
- A response is the text generated by the LLM.
- A systemPrompt is a prompt that guide the worker to tell him how to generate a response, how to use the LLM.

### A worker offer his services on a market
- Igora protocol is based on [Yjs](https://docs.yjs.dev/) that allow us to create a distributed database of Workers where clients can ask a worker to accomplish a task.

### A client create a job
- A client create a job and ask for its completion on the market.
- The market will give the job to a worker.
- The worker will give a response to the client.


## Getting Started

There are two ways to get started:
- You can [create a Igora stack in local market](/docs/installation) (a worker and a client on your own computer). Avantages : your data stay on your computer, Disadvantages : you can not use other llms or workers.
- You can [use decentralized Igora market](/docs/decentralized). Allowing you to use Igora protocol on a decentralized network.
 With this way, market, worker(s) and client(s) are distributed on the network. You specify which machine is a worker and which machine is a client. Advantages: Use a large bunch of llm , earn money or tokens with your workers
